# Tableau Analysis

Dashboard 1:

The first question we are going to dive into is how many trips have been recorded during the chosen time period. The data that is being used is from January 2018-December 2018. The total number of rides in 2018 is at 707,784 rides. Looking at the Total Rides Per Month chart, it can be seen that a majority of the rides were ridden between May-October where there were 480,506 rides. For the months that would be considered out of season, none of those months had at least 50,000 riders. For the months mentioned, they all had at least 68,000 riders in each of their months. The months of June, July, and August all had over 80,000 riders where May, September, and October had between 68,000-79,000 riders. From that data it can be seen that people like the ride bikes in the warmer weather as the rides are at their peak during the summer months. Looking at the Total Rides Per Month By Gender chart, it can be seen that males overwhelmingly rides bikes more than females. One thing to look at on this chart is to see if the number of riders by gender follow the overall monthly pattern or if the gender data veers off from the main data. It can be seen that the number of male and female riders is consistent with the total number of riders per month. Utilizing the 2018 Rides by Birth Year chart, it can be seen that any data used with birth years is going to be useless as there are many riders who have entered in fake birthdays. Right away when looking at the chart, there are 222 rides where the rider was born in 1888, that would make them 130 years old. Some of the other older years seem a little believable, but all of a sudden there is a surge in the number of people when going from 1968 to 1969. According to the data there were 45,080 rides from people born in 1969 where that is the highest number of rides from any birth year. Looking at the rides around that data, it is a complete outlier which makes you think people entered their birthday as 1969 as some sort of joke. With that, it is very difficult to cut out the outliers and have a good set of data. I included this graph as some of the birth years seem comical. The last chart, Average Ride Minutes Per Month, has the total number of rides per month and the average ride length per month to see if there is a correlation between the two sets of data. Overall, the average ride time correlates with the number of rides, but there is a small outlier between June-August. In those three months the number of rides rises each month where the average ride time goes down each of those months. For those three months there is a different variable affecting the ride time rather than just the number of rides. One observation could be that in June and July more people are utilizing the bikes to get from point A to point B as quickly as possible rather than having more riders that are just taking a nice stroll through the city.

Dashboard 2:

The second question we are going to dive into is what are the peak hours in which bikes are used during summer months? Utilizing the data from the previous question, we are going to use the data from May-October as that is when the highest number of rides occurred in 2018. The first graph we will look at is the Ride by Hour graph which has the number of rides by the hour for each day between the start of May and the end of October. It is a nice way to visualize the entire dataset where you can easily the number of rides all in one chart. We will not be making any inferences from this as there is too much going on in the chart to center around one piece of data. That brings us to the 2nd chart, Most Popular Riding Times, where the number of rides is broken down by the time of day by hours. From this chart we can see that 8 am and 6 pm are the two most popular times where people will utilize the bikes. An inference that can be taken from that is people utilize the bikes heavily as transportation from home to work and from work to home. If you look at the top six hours of the day, they are all at or an hour off of 8 am and 6 pm where after those six times, the number of rides starts to heavily decrease. Our last two graphs show the top stations at the top two most popular times, 8 am and 6 pm. At the 8 am graph there is one station that is significantly popular than the others, Hamilton Park. It has almost 4,000 more rides than the next highest station where that station does not even have 3,000 rides total. In the 5 pm graph, Hamilton Park is #6 for the evening stations which makes you think that area is more residential. Looking at the 2nd most popular station for 8 am, Grove St PATH, it is also the most popular station in the evenings by a large margin. That makes you think that it has a decent residential population, but there are also many offices/businesses nearby. We will look more in depth on this data in map form later on. 

Maps:

We put together two maps that show the start and end stations for the bikes so we can see if there are any inferences that can be made from the data. Starting with the Start Station Map, we can see right away that most of the starting rides are in Jersey City and its many zip codes in the downtown or nearby downtown area. Note that none of the starting spots are in New York. Looking where a few of the most used spots are (Grove St PATH, Hamilton Park, Exchange Place, Sip Ave) on a map with business and other landmark labels, it can be seen those spots are right in the middle of high traffic areas where there are people coming and going. In the End Station Map, it is remarkably similar to the stations in the starting one which shows that the bikes in that area of Jersey City usually stay in Jersey City. It is interesting to see the bikes that ended in a bunch of different various stations on the New York City side where the bikers would have had to ride on a bridge across the Hudson River to arrive to their destination. Seeing all of these start to end destinations being in the same area makes sense as the area the bike stations cover has a high population density where driving or riding the subway may not make sense depending on how close you live to work. Utilizing the data from these maps, people can figure out the areas that a number of business and also housing/apartment areas. 
